# Contributing

New motivated Contributors are always welcome.

Note that Contributors are required to be covered by an [Eclipse Contributor Agreement](https://www.eclipse.org/legal/ECA.php).
If a pull request has been open with no ECA for more than 24 hours, we consider it as either an automated pull request, which is not allowed, or an unmotivated pull request, which is rejected.
Such pull requests will be closed by maintainers.
So, if you encounter any issues, with the signing process, please tell us!
We will be glad to help.
Drop a comment in your pull request so we know about your problem and we do not close your pull request.

Contributors are encouraged, but not required, to be a [member](https://openhwfoundation.org/membership/become-a-member/) of the OpenHW Foundation, part of the Eclipse Foundation.

## Read this before

CORE-ET RTL has been taped out twice (once at the scale of 1088 cores and once at the scale of 8 cores) and as such represents an industrial-grade project, where we expect it to keep being integrated in production ICs. There are currently two branches in this repository:
  * [erbium branch](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-et/tree/erbium) 
  * [main branch](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-et/tree/main)

Erbium is a more static version of the RTL the way it was taped out while main represents the agentic-driven future of the platform. We don't expect Erbium branch to be actively developed, but we'd like to continue integrating new contributions into main to keep CORE-ET a vivid and innovative ecosystem. The agentic workflow we have developed treats Erbium branch as more or less repository of building blocks for the AI RTL design system to refactor and contribute to the main branch.

### Major evolutions

Therefore here are guidelines to help the CORE-ET team accept new contributions:

- Get in touch early with the CORE-ET team, present your initiative, get feedback, synchronize with the team...
    * The CORE-ET team wants to assess the potential of your contribution.
    * The CORE-ET team plans the next evolutions, and your contributions could be incompatible with them.
    * The CORE-ET team can provide you recommendations to ease the upcoming contribution.
    * This can help save significant review and overhauling effort for you and us when dealing with the pull request review.
    * Together, we can anticipate specific cases that are not addressed here.
    * If you do not know how to contact us open an issue in GitHub or jump onto our Discord.

If you encounter difficulties with these guidelines, get in touch with the team!

### Bug fixing

Bug fixing is always welcome. You can issue a GitHub issue. Better: solve the bug and trigger a pull request.

### Use of AI

Use of AI is not only permitted, but highly encouraged by ET-CORE team. In fact, we're collectively working on an agentic system that has a chance of completely revolutionize how digital design is done in the future. Since our entire approach is focused on making RTL designers 100x Engineers it is therefore centered on humans in the loop not some kind of magic EDA tooling. Therefore, AI-generated code shall always be reviewed and endorsed **by the human contributor** before submitting the pull request. In fact, we reject the very notion that the code is authored by AI the same way nobody would suggest that the code could be authored by an IDE. The code is always authored by a human (whatever tooling is being used to aid in that process). In the same spirit, not tool could ever absolve a human author from a thorough review and understanding of the code being submitted.

Contributions through code/documentation (pull requests) or feedback (issues) are highly appreciated, but keep in mind that each contribution has a cost for the project, as reviewers will spend time discussing the contributions.
For more information on this topic, see: <https://docs.kernel.org/process/coding-assistants.html> for practical considerations and <https://www.apache.org/legal/generative-tooling.html> for the legal ones.

This is why **automated pull requests, directly generated by large language models or AI coding assistants, are not permitted in this repository**.
Such contributions will be closed without review.

## The Mechanics
1. From GitHub: [fork](https://help.github.com/articles/fork-a-repo/) the [core-et](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-et) repository
2. Clone repository: `git clone https://github.com/[your_github_username]/core-et`
3. Create your feature branch: `git checkout -b <my_branch>.`<br> Please uniquify your branch name.
See the [Git Cheats](https://github.com/openhwgroup/core-v-verif/blob/master/GitCheats.md) for a useful nomenclature.
4. Make your edits...
5. Commit your changes: `git commit -m 'Add some feature'`
6. Push feature branch: `git push origin <my_branch>`
7. From GitHub: submit a pull request. The description must tell the reviewers why these changes are important for the project. More advice is provided in the pull request template.

Please note that we do not accept outdated pull requests.
This makes sure the CI flow has run in the to-be version of the master.

To allow us to update the pull request before merging it, please consider checking the "Allow edits from maintainers" checkbox.
Note that this can only be done with pull requests from your personal repository (it is impossible from organization repositories).

One last note: use the same email address for your GitHub and Eclipse accounts, to ensure a smooth Eclipse Contributor Agreement
check for your pull request.

## Coding Style

For RTL coding, the OpenHW Foundation has adopted the [lowRISC Style Guides](https://github.com/lowRISC/style-guides/).

## Git Considerations

- The pull request must be rebased on the master branch to be merged on GitHub. That is why we are requesting permissions on the PR branch to allow the committer to perform the rebasing.
- Do not push to master, if you want to add a feature do it in your branch.
- Separate subject from body with a blank line.
- Limit the subject line to 50 characters.
- Capitalize the subject line.
- Do not end the subject line with a period.
- Use the imperative mood in the subject line.
- Use the present tense ("Add feature" not "Added feature").
- Wrap the body at 72 characters.
- Use the body to explain what and why vs. how.
- Select relevant GitHub labels (e.g. ``Component:Doc``, ``Type:Bug``...)

For a detailed why and how please refer to one of the multiple [resources](https://chris.beams.io/posts/git-commit/) regarding git commit messages.

If you use `vi` for your commit message, consider to put the following snippet inside your `~/.vimrc`:

```
autocmd Filetype gitcommit setlocal spell textwidth=72s
```

## Verible

To format RTL files checked by GitHub , use the following command:

```
verible-verilog-format --inplace $(git ls-tree -r HEAD --name-only core |grep '\.sv$' |grep -v '^core/include/std_cache_pkg.sv$' |grep -v cvfpu)
```
